>> There is a very famous ad
campaign that says, got milk?
I believe we need
to have a new ad
campaign that says, got energy?
Hi, I'm Randy
Veitenheimer, I believe
nothing is going
to heal you more
than the energy you create for
and from your current reality.
In this episode, I will
go through the practices
and understanding of feeding
your own energy field.
Hopefully this will help
you obtain optimal health
and well-being.
Let's discuss how this works.
Most people lack energy
and are unable to maintain
an optimal existence in reality.
Lack of energy manifests as
illness, problems, and issues.
They show up in the body
as internal conflict
when your energy doesn't
match the incoming energy
or information.
All functions of the body
operate on electron flow--
on energy.
If you don't have enough,
then these systems
experience phenomena
similar to having
a dimmer switch on
that particular aspect
of your existence.
In an article published by the
University of Maryland recently
they talk about energy
in the body this way.
The elements in our body-- like
sodium, potassium, calcium,
and magnesium--
have a specific
electrical charge.
This is the chemical basis for
life that they're promoting.
Almost all of our cells can use
these charged elements called
ions to generate electricity.
That is true, but there's
also outside energy flows
that also contribute to
our overall energy content.
The contents of the
cell are protected
from the outside environment
by a cell membrane.
Our energy field is protected
by a similar membrane.
I have given it the
name of a event horizon.
Just like your skin is the limit
of your physical existence,
your event horizon,
the absolute limit
of your electronic or
electromagnetic field,
is also a barrier to other
information or other energy
flows.
The cell membrane is
made up of lipids,
and they create a barrier
that only certain substances
can cross to reach
the cell interior.
Why don't we think of the human
body and the human energy field
in the same way?
Why wouldn't we set
up our energy field
and do practices that allow for
the energetic interaction that
occurs at the limit of our
energy field to be selective
and to not allow that
which is destructive,
whether it be a flu
virus or whether it
be a negative thought?
Not only does the cell
membrane function as a barrier
to molecules, it
also acts as a way
for the cell to generate
electrical currents.
And this is also true of
your electromagnetic field.
Your interactions create
an electrical flow
through your own
electrical circuits,
your own electrical
currents through the body,
and that is the source of
a large part of our energy
that comes from outside us.
But there's also energy
created inside us.
Resting cells are negatively
charged on the inside.
If you're negatively charged
on the inside of your energy
field, what are you
going to attract?
You attract negativity.
Like attracts like.
While the outside environment
is more positively charged,
while this may be
true in ourselves,
it may not be true
in our environment.
The tendency is for humans
to have a negatively charged
environment.
It's very rare that
you see somebody
who exists in a positively
charged environment
inside and out.
It is a natural occurrence
up to about six years old,
but then we tend to lose
it so it becomes something
that we have to look for,
something to be sought out
in the form of gurus, in
the form of teachings,
in the form of practices.
The attempt in all
of these things
is to find some sort of balance.
So we look at what
goes on in the cells,
we can say the same thing
for the human energy field.
There are slight imbalances.
There's a tendency to
be positive or negative.
Cells can achieve
this charge separation
by allowing charged
ions to flow in
and out through the membrane.
So let's think about
that as the mind itself.
The mind receives and
transmits thoughts
of a positive and
negative nature.
The flow of charges
across the cell membrane
is what generates
electrical currents.
If we look at that,
we can say the charges
and flow of energy across
the human energy field
creates our thoughts
and our emotions.
Cells control the flow of
specifically charged elements
across the membrane
with proteins
that sit on the cell surface
and create and operate
for certain ions
to pass through.
This is called cellular
receptivity and receptor sites.
We do the same thing.
We come with a set of programs
or acquire those programs
that determine what cellular
openings, what receptor
sites are available to us.
And it's why we reject certain
concepts, or ideas, or things,
or foods just outright.
This is the right concept,
but ions are not life force.
They're just a
different energy form.
So what is life force compared
to ionic flow, neutrino flow,
and electron flow,
and particle physics,
and similar components?
Life force cannot be
defined by particle physics.
It is the finite
describing the infinite.
Mainstream science seems intent
on breaking apart the universe
into smaller and smaller parts.
If we take an
entire human being,
we would break it
down into organs,
and then we would break
it down into molecules,
and from molecules to atoms,
and from atoms to subatomic,
and from the
subatomic to quantum
flow, and quantum information
flows, quantum energy flows.
Then we would now
get to sub quantum.
And if we keep going we get to
dark energy, and at that point
you've lost everybody.
Because how the whole
functions is really life force,
and it is a part
of consciousness,
and it is an aspect
of the universe
that all these things
do not explain.
While you can separate out those
type of energy forces and flows
in the body, you cannot say
that they are the reason
or the source of our existence.
As a healer, we work
with life force.
We may work with all
the different energies
that are referred to in
fourth level physics--
particle physics,
quantum physics--
but ultimately we're
working with life force.
It's a different energy.
It may be inclusive of
everything we've talked about,
but is not separate,
and it is also not
complete with the
level of physics
we currently understand.
What's interesting is
that around the world,
other people have approached
this from different viewpoints.
Konstantin Korotkov in Russia
and some of his associates
have decided to work
with life force itself.
They've done it with people who
have extreme physical issues.
Maybe they were born
without eyesight,
and yet as part of
their studies they
were able to develop
in a person the ability
to see using their life force,
using their energy field.
Additional studies they
did were on dead people.
The idea that there
is energy in the body
and that its form has
some sort of existence,
some sort of physicality
which is not explained just
in the physical nature of the
soul but as an etheric form,
as an energy form that exists
prior to and after you die.
He wants to find the
receptacle for life.
Konstantin's efforts
and experiments
are very good reading.
They're something that I
think people should become
familiar with in the same way
that Elisabeth Kubler-Ross
wrote "On Death and Dying."
These are all subjects that
explore the life force--
they don't explore
quantum physics--
as it applies to human beings.
So why is this important
for you to know?
Because if you know you can
start to separate your body
energy from life
force energy, you
can separate zero
and one reality.
I use this as a viewpoint
to say if you can step back
to where you can look
and see zero reality--
your thoughts, your feelings,
what kind of behavior
you're exhibiting--
and then look at the
physical reality around you,
you have an ability to interact
with them greater than if you
cannot adopt that viewpoint
of being an observer.
So how do you
separate the energy
that flows through the
body versus the energy
that you express
through the body?
Viewpoint.
To be able to step back
and observe yourself.
It's one of the
primary requirements
if you're going to pursue
any kind of enlightenment
or any kind of understanding of
really what it means to exist.
The highest form
of enlightenment
is to recognize energy as its
existence, not as its presence.
This is something
that you would have
to sit, and study, and try to
come to some understanding of.
Life force is neither
created or destroyed,
it is only transformed.
And we are the vessel or vehicle
for how that energy comes
into the universe and how it
is spread out or transformed
when we express it.
We take raw life force
and I express it as Randy.
You take raw life force
and express it as yourself.
And you can do this
better by developing
an internal landscape
that includes
the infinite energy of the
universe as your potential.
This means realizing that
you are one with the creator.
If you don't do this, you
are absent of the creator
and you are separate
from the true self.
And what can happen is long
term deficiencies equal illness
or failure of the systems in
the body because of the blocking
or lack of flow of life force.
To get out of your
separation, you
can change your interactions.
You can have interactions
with the body.
with your environment.
This is one of the steps you
can take that ultimately lead
to some transformation
of your consciousness
and your ability to
express your life force.
All self-help books are in some
way trying to remove the blocks
or trying to give
you a program that
lets you move forward in life.
But if you are truly yourself,
you really don't need them.
Physical exercises, martial
exercises, mental exercises--
all of these things
are energy flows.
It's ultimately all we can say.
We give meaning
to them, and we'll
call them emotional
interactions,
we'll call them
mental interactions,
we'll call it love, we'll call
it everything in the universe,
and all we're referring to
is the level of consciousness
of the expression of the energy
that flows and comes out of us.
The energy that flows into
us is 100% life force.
The energy that
flows out of us is
one that is colored or
filtered through our emotions,
through our habits, through our
programming, through our memory
more than anything.
We experience an increase of
energy because of interactions
and relationships.
And that is something
that if we can
take a viewpoint
of non-judgement,
we take a viewpoint of stepping
back, and ultimately to have
the viewpoint of the
observer, and to be
able to listen, and
to be able to see
our environment without our
input of our experiences,
and our history, and
our memory gives us
a pure sight into life itself.
To be fully human--
to be energized-- is to be able
to use people, plants, animals,
ideas, thoughts,
feelings, interactions--
to be able to use
everything as a mirror--
as a reflection of life itself--
not just you, but life itself--
and to be able to look
in those mirrors and go,
oh, this is what's going on.
And this is how
it applies to me.
That is to be able
to separate yourself
long enough to be able to
make changes in direction.
If you're sick, see
yourself being sick.
If you're happy see
yourself being happy.
Just the scene of
yourself creates
a change in your
electromagnetic frequency,
it creates a change
in your vibration,
in your consciousness.
So now that you know some ways
to activate your life force,
you need to be able to
be cautious of using
other people's life
force to increase yours.
We call these
energetic vampires.
I think everybody
out there knows
somebody who fits that bill.
How do you find out who's
an energetic vampire?
It's the easiest
thing in the world.
It refers to your etheric field,
it refers to your limbic field
or limbic system in the body, it
refers to your proximity sense.
All three of these things
react to a negative energy flow
no matter what its form is.
So all you have to
do is ask yourself
when you meet somebody, or think
something, or see something,
do I feel better
or do I feel worse?
Do I feel energized or
do I feel de-energized?
It's a simple thing,
but what it does
is start allowing you to
recognize the universe
and the environment you live
in, and out of recognition
can come understanding.
You don't need negative
people in your life.
I love that.
Actually, you do.
Negative people allow
you to examine yourself.
You just don't need
to hang out with them
because the loss of energy can
result in depression or anxiety
in yourself.
If you do not have enough energy
and you attempt to help others,
you will become
energetically bankrupt.
We call them enablers.
It's people who
are enablers that
keep bankrupting their own
energy field to help somebody
else, generally somebody who
either doesn't want to be
helped or can't be helped.
But we do it out of programs
of they're my family,
or they're my relations,
or they're somebody
I feel like I need to help.
All of these statements
reflect a negative state
of consciousness.
They reflect that you are also
needing energy because you
get energy from helping others.
That's true.
But that's an ego help,
that's an ego energy flow,
and it's not sustainable.
The only thing sustainable
is your connection
to the life force
of the universe,
and you should devote
yourself to some practice that
allows you to, number one,
be yourself; number two,
be connected to yourself;
and out of that position
to be able to be
connected to the universe
and to the entire flow
of energy of life itself.
This is being selfish.
You need to be selfish.
The selfish self in
our society, we're
programmed that that's kind
of a horrible human being.
But really, to be selfish
is to take care of yourself.
It is to be energized, it
is find some sort of joy
about being alive
and being happy
instead of relating
to your problems
and relating to other
people's problems.
If you are joyful about
your own existence,
you have the energy--
you have excess energy.
We see it in all
people that are joyful.
Those people have the greatest
potential to help somebody
not if you're down
and out, now if you're
in a negative emotional state
or a negative environment.
There's lots of books and
lots of teachers on this.
You need to be able to help
yourself before helping others.
Most negative
drains on the energy
field itself are the result
of the emotions primarily
and the thoughts secondarily--
not the efforts of
the physical body.
Emotions will drain you.
They will totally leave you
on the floor with no energy,
and the recovery
time can be days.
It can be weeks.
Thinking will do the same thing.
If you've ever studied
late into the night,
your actual mental
processes will wear you out.
You will burn off all
the water in the body.
Your brain will
become dehydrated.
It is not even
energy at that point,
your physicality has lost
its presence and ability
to transfer energy from
the field through your self
and out as an expression
of your activity.
These are energy
statements and assessments
of your energy existence--
your life force.
Proposing a new model of
reality where emotions can live
requires recognition.
Just the act of recognition
that emotions are not us
gives you an opportunity
to advance yourself
in life and to not
be so participatory
against your will.
You are an evolutionary
space-time event.
This is existence that
finds form in life.
Your evolution will
always come first,
but you must have a recognition
of your ego identity
and know that it is not the
totality of your existence.
When you recognize
your emotions,
you don't participate
in them to the extent
that you lose your
identity and consciousness
and you're only
left with your ego.
And then you can have a
conversation with your ego.
This is important because this
is the step of recognition
and the step of observation.
It is also a place.
If you can develop that
place in your consciousness
where you can observe yourself--
two of the first
exercises that I
give people is to be able to
see yourself-- to see yourself
as you are and see yourself as
you interact with everything
in your environment.
This is the ability to
learn from yourself--
in the same, way to be
able to hear yourself.
Listen to what
you say to people.
Listen to what other people say.
Listen to the sounds
of the universe,
whether they be music, or
plants, or anything else.
This is how you learn.
So understanding the difference
between body energy and life
force, body energy is your
expression of life force.
Life force is independent and
flows through the human body.
It is important so that you
know how much energy you really
have.
You can either not
have enough input
or you can have too much output.
This is balance.
This is the second
martial art I teach,
and it directly refers to
how much energy you have
and how much energy you express.
Once you know how
much energy you have,
you can use it to heal
yourself particularly
if you have excess,
particularly if you
take the time to not express
energy in an outward fashion,
but to actually stop--
to put a hold on the
expression of that energy.
Sometimes we call it meditation.
Sometimes we call
it contemplation.
But in these states,
you actually still
flow energy-- life
force-- through yourself,
but you're not
expressing all of it.
The excess becomes
available to you.
So really it's not to
not express energy,
to not interact, to hold back,
it's really to give yourself
some time to develop a charge--
to charge your body up,
to charge yourself up,
to not restrict yourself
and the flow of that life
force through you.
So that when the
opportunity occurs
you're able to express yourself
in the best way you can,
which is being yourself.
The other things
we covered today
was to identify the biggest
strain of our life force
which is emotions.
With the ability to
control our participation,
then we can control
our life force itself.
Thank you for joining me.
I hope I was able to shed
some light on recognizing
your emotional body
as a separate system
of consciousness, and in
doing so help you control it.
Up next we dive deeper
into the energetic ocean
that surrounds you.